Now I have all the information I need to write the strategy. Let me plan it out carefully:
Game mechanics summary:

Map: 20x20 to 50x50, symmetric
Resources: Titanium (Ti) and Axionite (Ax, raw/refined)
Start: 500 Ti, +10 Ti every 4 rounds (passive)
Builder bots: 30 HP, 50 Ti base cost (+20% scaling), vision r²=20, action r²=2
Can walk on: Conveyors, Roads, Allied core
Can move in 8 directions (including diagonals)
Attack costs 2 Ti to deal 2 damage to a building on their tile
Core is 3×3 with 500 HP and spawns 1 builder per round

Now looking at the building costs: Builders start at 50 Ti with 20% scaling, roads are cheap at 1 Ti, conveyors cost 3 Ti, bridges are 20 Ti for diagonal transport, harvesters run 80 Ti, and foundries are expensive at 120 Ti with a steep 100% scaling multiplier.
The strategy focuses on three phases: first, spawn builders to locate titanium and establish harvester chains back to the core; second, once harvesters are running, send more bots to find axe ore and additional titanium while setting up a foundry; third, if I have surplus resources, deploy attack bots that rush the enemy core by standing on their tiles and repeatedly attacking. Since the map is symmetric, I can estimate where the enemy core is positioned.
Now I'm realizing the core constraint—builder bots can only traverse conveyors, roads, and allied territory, so they'll need to construct roads as they explore. I can use launchers to throw bots over obstacles and bridges for diagonal resource transfers. The key architectural question is whether all units run the same code or if I need separate files for different unit types. Looking at the docs, every unit runs an independent instance of the submitted code, which means I need a single entry point that determines behavior based on unit type and marker communication. a unit. So I need one Player class that handles both the Core and Builder Bot behavior based on entity type.
Let me re-read: "The core, builder bots, and turrets are units."
So the Player class needs to handle:

When it's the Core: spawn bots, convert resources
When it's a Builder Bot: navigate, build, attack

Marker-based communication:

Markers hold a u32 integer value
Use marker positions near the core to communicate state
State: phase (1/2/3), Ti harvester count, Ax harvester count, foundry status, enemy core position

Movement:

Bots can only walk on conveyors/roads/allied core
They need to BUILD roads as they go to navigate!
Once a road is placed, they can walk on it
To explore: build road on adjacent tile, move to it

The key constraint is that bots start on a map with no roads, so they can only move by building roads ahead of them within their action radius. Phase 1 bots will need to explore and locate ore deposits, then construct harvester structures and conveyor chains back to the core. Phase 2 introduces a different strategy, but I need to flesh out the exact roles and priorities for each phase. bots: find Ax ore, build foundry, route back

Phase 3 bots: rush enemy core, spam attack

Enemy core location:

Map is symmetric by reflection or rotation
If our core is at (cx, cy) on a W×H map:

Horizontal reflection: enemy at (W-1-cx, cy)
Vertical reflection: enemy at (cx, H-1-cy)
180° rotation: enemy at (W-1-cx, H-1-cy)
Diagonal reflections for square maps


Best guess: try 180° rotation first (W-1-cx, H-1-cy)

Conveyor routing:

To route Ti from harvester to core:

Place harvesters on Ti ore
Build conveyors pointing toward core forming a chain
Last conveyor adjacent to core feeds into it
Use bridges for diagonal segments



Now I'm setting up the code structure with marker positions relative to the core center to track game state—phase, harvester counts, enemy core coordinates, and bot spawn counters—then encoding bot roles based on their spawn index.
Writing game logic... I'm setting up the core and builder bot logic, where the core reads markers to manage phases and spawning, while each builder bot reads its assigned role from markers and executes accordingly. The main challenge is that builder bots can only traverse roads they've built themselves, and all communication between isolated Python instances happens through markers within a tight 2ms time budget per round. marker near its spawn position

OR the core writes role markers for each bot spawn position
Bot navigates by building roads ahead of itself

Wait, actually in Battlecode all bots run THE SAME player.py file. Let me re-read...
"Units are game entities which run an independent instance of the code that you submit."
I think there's just one player.py file and all units (core + builder bots) run it. The Player class has __init__ and run(c).
Let me design accordingly.
State machine for Builder Bot:
The bot uses its own Python state (instance vars) + reads markers for shared state.
Bot roles communicated via markers placed by Core at specific positions. The core places a marker at a "role assignment" position with the bot's role encoded.
Actually, let me simplify: bots will read a "phase" marker from the core position area, and based on the current phase and how many harvesters exist, decide their role.
I'll use a marker layout where the core writes phase and resource counts at fixed offsets from its position, plus enemy location data if discovered. Then builder bots can read these markers each turn to understand the current game state and decide whether they should be exploring, harvesting, or building foundries. Writing movement logic... I'm realizing that move and action cooldowns are independent—each round a bot can move once AND perform one action like building, as long as their respective cooldowns are at 0. After moving, move_cooldown becomes 1 and decrements next round, same pattern for actions. So the greedy strategy should prioritize moving toward the target first, then building roads on adjacent empty tiles if blocked, with fallback directions and waiting as last resort.
This opens up an optimization: a bot can build a road on an adjacent tile and then move onto it in the same round, which accelerates exploration significantly. I'm sketching out the movement logic to try the primary direction toward the target, then rotate through alternatives if blocked...
Refining movement logic... Finishing the road-building logic...
Now I'm thinking about how to handle walls—the bot needs to navigate around them or potentially use launchers to throw itself over obstacles. For now, I'll stick with a greedy approach that tries different directions to avoid walls, though implementing launcher mechanics would be more complex since those are buildings that need to be constructed first.
Actually, looking back at the launcher mechanics: they're turrets that can pick up adjacent builder bots and throw them to target tiles within range. Since launchers also run through the Player class, I need to handle the EntityType.LAUNCHER case in my code to call the launch method when appropriate.
For now, I'll keep the approach simple—detect walls and navigate around them, with launcher placement as an optional optimization when I encounter large wall clusters. Writing the player code... Defining game thresholds and the Player class...
Now I'm thinking through how bots determine their assigned roles—the Core could mark spawn positions with role indicators, but that's limited since the Core can only place one marker per round.
A better approach is having each bot read the phase information from a Core marker on its first execution, then decide its role based on what harvesters already exist in its vision range. Or even simpler: each bot instance tracks its own role, reads the phase marker from the Core's position to understand the current game state, and the Core manages spawn counts through its own internal markers.
I'm settling on a marker encoding scheme where the Core places multiple markers in a row starting from its position—one encodes the phase and harvester counts, another stores enemy coordinates, and a third tracks spawn information.
Since bots spawn nearby and can read these markers, they'll decode the game state directly. When a bot first wakes up, it reads the spawn count from the marker and assigns itself a role based on a simple rule: the first few bots become Ti miners, the next batch become Ax miners, and the rest become attackers. The tricky part is figuring out which bot is which—the bot can't know its own spawn index directly. The solution is having the Core write each bot's assigned role to a marker at its spawn tile, so when the bot wakes up and reads its own tile, it immediately knows what role to take.
I'm setting up role IDs where 1 represents Ti miners, 2 for Ax miners, 3 for attackers, and optionally 4 for launcher builders. Now I need to implement the full solution, starting with the navigation logic where bots move toward their target, build roads when blocked by non-wall tiles, and try alternate paths around walls.
Implementing navigation logic... Still writing pathfinding logic... I need to reconsider the ore tile logic—roads shouldn't be built on ore since that would block harvesters from being placed there later. So I should skip ore tiles entirely when looking for places to build roads. Beyond that, when the bot locates titanium ore, it needs to construct a harvester on that tile and then build a conveyor chain routing resources back to the core.
The challenge is that the bot's initial path to the ore was paved with roads, which are cheaper than conveyors but both are walkable. I could theoretically convert those roads into directional conveyors pointing back toward the core, but implementing that in a stateless way gets complicated. Let me think about a simpler approach instead.
The cleanest solution is to have the bot remember the exact path it took to reach the ore, then backtrack along that same route while converting each road into a conveyor pointing toward the core. This way the infrastructure is already laid out—I just need to swap the building types. The only wrinkle is that destroying allied buildings doesn't incur a cooldown cost, so the bot can efficiently replace roads with conveyors as it retraces its steps back to the core.
Now I'm realizing I need to be careful about how conveyors point—they output in a specific direction, so at each position along the return path, the conveyor should face toward the previous position (the direction back toward the core). I'm also wondering whether conveyors can point diagonally or only in cardinal directions, since the path might include diagonal steps.
Looking at the direction types and conveyor documentation, conveyors are restricted to the four cardinal directions, while bridges handle diagonal transfers. So my approach should be to use conveyors for cardinal segments and bridges for diagonal ones as the user requested.
Now I'm planning out the code structure with clear sections for the core game logic and builder bot behavior, including phase tracking, resource management, navigation, mining operations, and combat strategies.
I need to account for different entity types like turrets and launchers that will be running this same code, so I'll handle launcher behavior separately since they should throw bots rather than act as regular units. Bots can locate the core by scanning nearby entities or using their spawn position as a reference point to navigate and coordinate their actions.
Writing the implementation... Setting up the marker encoding scheme to track game state like phase, harvester counts, and foundry status, then defining utility functions to check tile bounds and passability for pathfinding and building placement.
Writing utility functions... Continuing with the entity type checks for builder bots and launchers, then moving into the core logic where I'm tracking resources, counting existing harvesters, and managing spawning strategy. I'm finishing the condition check and then moving into the phase determination logic, where I'm evaluating the harvester counts against target thresholds to decide whether to focus on mining titanium, mining axionite, or shift to attacking.
Now I'm handling resource conversion and emergency checks—if we have excess axionite I'll convert some of it, and if titanium drops too low I'll pause spawning new units and just update the core markers before returning.
Once we get past that safety check, I need to figure out what role the next bot should take based on our current phase and resource levels, then attempt to spawn it if we haven't hit the unit cap yet. I'm encoding the game state into marker values at the core position—phase, harvester counts, and foundry count all packed into a single number. If an enemy position has been spotted, I'm also writing that to an adjacent marker using encoded coordinates.
Now I'm moving into the builder bot logic to handle what individual builders should do each round.
First I need to locate the core if I haven't already, then determine what role this builder should take based on markers. I'm tracking the path taken from the core since that'll be useful for routing conveyors later. Once the role is established, I execute the appropriate behavior—mining titanium, mining axinite, or whatever else the role demands.
Now I'm setting up the helper methods to find the core by scanning nearby entities for my team's core, then using symmetry to predict where the enemy core should be. I'm checking if there's a role marker at the current position, and if not, I'm reading the phase from the core marker to determine what phase we're in, then assigning a role based on that phase.
Now I'm setting up the miner logic with exploration directions based on position, and defining the different states the miner can be in like exploring for ore or building a harvester.
Continuing with the state machine...
If we're moving toward ore, I first check whether it's still available or if another harvester already claimed it. Then I calculate the distance to see if we're close enough to start building.
Once adjacent, I attempt to construct the harvester at that location. If it's already been built by someone else, I skip straight to laying down the conveyor belt from our current position back toward the base.
Now I'm implementing a helper function to scan nearby tiles and identify the closest ore deposit that doesn't already have a harvester on it.
Then I'm adding an exploration method that moves the unit outward from the core position in a spiral pattern, or if the core hasn't been established yet, it moves in a fixed direction while staying within map bounds. Clamping the target coordinates to stay within map bounds, then navigating toward that position. Now I'm moving into the conveyor chain building phase—I need to walk back along the path from the ore location to the core, placing conveyors as I go, but first checking if there's actually a path to follow and if there are still conveyor segments left to place.
Building conveyor placement logic... Still writing conveyor placement logic...
Now I'm moving into the attacker strategy section. I need to determine the enemy core position, either from a marker or by guessing based on symmetry, then rush toward it and spam attacks. Writing navigation logic... Writing navigation logic... Still writing movement logic... Still writing controller logic... Writing launcher logic...
Actually, I'm noticing some issues with my approach. The bot can't build a conveyor on its current tile without first clearing the road there, which takes a separate action. And for bridges, I need to remember that the bot has to actually be standing on the bridge structure itself, not just adjacent to it—the bridge is a building that spans from one position to another.
I'm also realizing the action radius is r²=2, which means the bot can build on any of the 8 adjacent tiles plus its own tile. That's helpful for placement flexibility.
One more thing: while bots can walk on conveyors, which is good for creating chains, I'm tracking the path the bot takes in self.path_taken. But the path might not be a straight line—it could zigzag—and some positions might have ore where I'd build harvesters instead of conveyors. So I need to be more careful about which positions in the path are actually suitable for conveyor placement.
Actually, let me simplify this. Instead of trying to build conveyors along the exact path taken, I should build a fresh greedy path from the harvester back to the core. Once the harvester is built at the ore position, I need to create a conveyor chain: the harvester outputs resources to an adjacent conveyor, which then chains back toward the core. So the bot should build the first conveyor adjacent to the ore, pointing toward the core, then continue building conveyors in a greedy path back home.
As the bot walks back toward the core, at each position it should build a conveyor pointing in the direction of the core—since that's where resources need to flow.
I'm setting up a state machine to handle this: explore for ore, navigate to it, build the harvester adjacent to it, then walk back while laying down conveyors at each step, and finally mark it done.
For the return trip, I'll build a conveyor at my current position pointing toward the next step before moving. I need to be careful about positioning—the harvester goes on the ore tile itself, so I need to stand adjacent (within action radius) to build it, which means I need a road tile next to the ore first.
Implementing the movement logic... the bot needs to handle the case where it's standing on a tile that already has a conveyor—it shouldn't try to build there again. So the algorithm is: walk back from ore toward core, and at each step, if the current tile has a road, replace it with a conveyor pointing toward core; if it's already a conveyor or empty, just move on. The chain gets built incrementally as the bot retraces its path. the conveyor/road chain to be intact to walk on (it can only walk on conveyors/roads). If it destroys a road to build a conveyor, can it then walk on the conveyor? YES - the docs say "Conveyors (any variant, any direction, either team)" are walkable.
So the sequence at each tile:

Check if current tile has a road → destroy it → build conveyor there pointing toward next step (core direction)
Move toward core

But the bot can't destroy and build on the same tile in one action... wait, destroy doesn't cost action cooldown! So:

c.destroy(current_pos) (free, no cooldown)
c.build_conveyor(current_pos, direction_to_core) (costs action cooldown)
Move toward core (costs move cooldown)

Now I'm checking whether the bot can actually build on its own tile. The rules say walkable buildings like conveyors and roads can be placed on tiles with builder bots, so yes—I can destroy the road beneath me and immediately build a conveyor in its place, then move toward the core.
The real issue is ensuring the path back is valid. Since the bot walked outward from the core, all those tiles should already have roads. I'll track the path taken as a list of positions and reverse it for the return trip.
Now I'm working through the timing and mechanics: the bot explores and builds roads toward the ore over multiple rounds, then positions itself adjacent to the ore deposit. The harvester gets built directly on the ore tile itself—not adjacent to it—which works because the ore is within the bot's action radius. From there, I need to figure out how to chain conveyors from the harvester back toward the core, starting with a conveyor at the bot's current position. WEST (toward core at (0,0))
Wait, (4,5) pointing west would output west (to (3,5))... and we want resources to go from ore toward core, which is west. So the conveyor at (4,5) should point WEST. Makes sense.
But then (4,5) accepts input from EAST, NORTH, SOUTH (all non-output sides). The harvester at (5,5) outputs to adjacent buildings to the WEST, NORTH, SOUTH, EAST (prioritizes least recently used). So it could output to (4,5) which is WEST.
Wait, harvesters: "Outputs one stack of the corresponding resource to an adjacent building every 4 rounds. Prioritises outputting in directions used least recently."
So harvesters output in whatever direction that has an adjacent accepting building. Since we have a conveyor at (4,5), the harvester at (5,5) will output west to it. ✓
Now I'm tracing the conveyor chain from (4,5) pointing west through (3,5) and onward to the core. The bot's path from core to ore might take a diagonal route like core(0,0) → road(1,0) → road(2,1) → road(3,2) → road(4,3) → road(4,4) → road(4,5) → harvester at (5,5), which means I'll need bridges to handle the diagonal adjacencies between positions like (1,0) and (2,1).
This is getting complex but manageable. Now I'm thinking about the code's performance constraints—with a 2ms limit per round and potentially 60 nearby tiles from vision, I can't afford expensive algorithms like BFS. I'll stick with greedy movement and simpler conveyor routing instead of tracking exact paths.
The strategy is: once the harvester is built, place a conveyor on its current tile pointing toward the core, step toward the core, then repeat—converting any road tiles into conveyors as I go. For diagonal moves, I'll use bridges instead since they can bypass directional restrictions and feed into any adjacent building. The key insight is that a bridge at position P targeting diagonal position Q will work because the bridge's range covers that distance and doesn't care about the receiving building's orientation. Q, the bridge's output feeds into the conveyor/road at Q. Then we continue walking to Q.
But we need the building at Q to accept resources. The bridge "can feed any building that accepts resources." So the next conveyor at Q will receive from the bridge. ✓
Wait, but when can_build_bridge checks for action radius constraint? The bridge itself is a building at position P. We need P to be within action radius (r²=2 from bot position). Since bot is AT P, the bot can build there. And the target is Q, which is diagonal from P. Distance² from P to Q = 2 (diagonal step), which is ≤ 9. ✓
Alright! So the routing algorithm is:

At position P (on road), determine direction toward core
If direction is cardinal: destroy road at P, build conveyor pointing toward core at P
If direction is diagonal: destroy road at P, build bridge at P targeting the next diagonal step
Move forward to the next tile
Repeat until reaching core

But I'm realizing this approach gets expensive fast—bridges cost 20 Ti each, and a 30-tile path with many diagonals could require 15+ bridges, totaling over 300 Ti just for routing. I should consider an alternative: stick to cardinal-only conveyors and route around diagonal segments using two cardinal moves instead.
Actually, the simplest approach is to always prefer cardinal directions. When the ideal path is diagonal, I'll pick whichever cardinal axis needs more travel. This keeps all conveyors cardinal and avoids expensive bridges entirely.
Implementing a helper function that returns the best cardinal direction toward the core...
Still writing direction logic...
But wait—the user specifically said to use bridges for diagonal transfers. Let me reconsider what they're asking for. They want bridges when diagonals are necessary, not to avoid them entirely. So I should implement both cardinal and diagonal pathfinding, using bridges only when a diagonal segment is actually needed.
Actually, I'm overcomplicating this. I don't need complex path tracking at all. The bot can just greedily move toward the core from wherever it is, building conveyors or bridges as needed based on the direction to the target. Since the return path might not perfectly align with the outward journey, the bot will simply build over any existing roads as it goes. to within action radius of ore_pos, then switch to building the harvester once adjacent. After construction, I'll set the return route and walk back toward core while converting roads to conveyors. The attacker bot will navigate to the enemy core, fire on buildings when in range, and retreat if resources run low.
Now I'm writing the implementation...
Actually, I need to think through the route_back logic more carefully. When moving from the ore back to core, each conveyor needs to point in the direction of the next step toward core, so the harvester's output flows correctly down the chain. The first conveyor goes at my current position adjacent to the ore, and each subsequent one continues the path homeward.
One thing I was worried about—whether I can build a conveyor on my own tile—turns out to be fine since conveyors are walkable. And I don't need to be standing on a tile to destroy it, which simplifies things.
Writing the implementation... Writing the player strategy code... I'm setting up the Player class with state tracking for position, exploration, and role assignment, then dispatching to different handler methods based on entity type.
Now I'm implementing the core logic to scan nearby entities, counting harvesters and foundries while looking for the enemy core position. Finishing the phase decision logic, then converting excess axionite to titanium if available. Next I'm determining what role the bot should take based on the current phase—mining titanium, mining axionite, or attacking if we have enough surplus titanium. Finally, I'm checking if we have enough resources and unit capacity to spawn a new bot, then iterating through spawn positions.
Searching for a valid spawn location in the surrounding grid, placing the bot there and marking it with its assigned role. Then I'm encoding the current state into a marker at the core position, combining phase information with harvester counts and foundry status. After that, I'll check if we've detected an enemy position to mark as well.
Now moving into the builder bot logic—first I need to locate the core if it hasn't been found yet, assign the bot its role on initialization, and keep tracking the enemy whenever it comes into view. I'm finishing the core lookup by guessing the enemy position based on a 180-degree rotation of the map, then checking for role assignment markers that the core placed at spawn time.
Now I'm reading the marker value to determine the unit's role—whether it's a miner or attacker—and setting the initial state to explore. If that fails, I fall back to reading the phase from the core's state marker to assign a default role based on the current game phase.
I'm seeding the exploration direction using a hash of the unit's position to create deterministic but varied starting directions, then implementing a scan function to detect nearby enemy entities.
Scanning for enemies...
Now I'm implementing the miner's state machine—when exploring, it searches for unclaimed ore deposits and transitions to approach mode once one is found, then checks if the ore has already been harvested by another unit before deciding whether to route toward it. Still writing harvester logic... Writing the routing logic... Building conveyors and roads to navigate toward the core, checking movement cooldown and terrain conditions to decide whether to move directly or construct a path first. Writing exploration logic... Writing bot logic... I'm checking if we're adjacent to the enemy core—if so, I'll spam attacks when the cooldown is ready and we have enough resources. Otherwise, I navigate toward the target and attack any enemy buildings on the current tile. Now I'm moving into the navigation logic, which handles pathfinding and road construction toward the target position.
For pathfinding, I'm scoring each direction based on whether it moves us closer to the target in the x and y axes, prioritizing diagonal moves that advance both coordinates simultaneously.
Then I'm attempting to move in the best direction if the cooldown allows, and if that fails, I'll try building roads to clear obstacles in the way.
Now I'm moving on to the launcher function, which handles throwing adjacent builder bots toward enemies—first checking if the action cooldown is ready, then scanning nearby entities to find builder bots.
Searching for throw targets... I'm noticing some inconsistencies in my implementation—I have in_bounds defined both ways, so I'll stick with the module-level version to keep things cleaner. The explore_dir tuple comparison should work fine with dirs_list.index(). I'm also thinking through the marker logic: when the core spawns a bot, it places a marker at that exact position, and the bot reads it on the first turn. If multiple bots spawn at nearby positions, each gets its own marker since the core places one per spawned bot per round. There's a potential edge case if the core respawns a bot at the same position in consecutive rounds—I need to verify whether that overwrites the friendly marker or causes issues.
The key question is timing: does a newly spawned bot run in the same round it spawns, or does it start next round? Based on the turn order rules, it seems the bot would run starting the next round, which means the core places the marker, then the bot reads it the following round after the core has already moved on to place the next marker elsewhere. The core spawns the bot and places a marker at that position in the same action sequence, so when the newly spawned bot reads the marker on its first turn, it gets the correct role before the core can overwrite anything. Even if the core moves to spawn elsewhere in the next round, it places a new marker at the new position while leaving the old bot's marker untouched.
The real concern is whether the core could spawn two bots at the same position in consecutive rounds, but that's prevented by the spawn validation—once a bot occupies a tile, can_spawn() returns false for that tile, so the core automatically chooses a different position. I don't think the builder bot needs to place a marker at its own tile. Let me trace through the direction assignment logic—I'm computing a deterministic direction from the position using a hash, storing it as a tuple, and then later looking it up in the directions list to find its index, which should work fine since both are tuples.
Actually, I'm seeing an inconsistency: I'm computing explore_dir from the dirs list in one place but referencing dirs_list elsewhere. I should standardize this by using Direction enum objects instead of tuples, storing just the index, and looking it up when needed.
Refactoring direction handling...
Now I'm hitting a critical issue with the _route_step function—the bot needs to walk from the ore area back to core while building conveyors along the path, but there's a timing problem with when the harvester was placed and where the bot actually is.
When the bot built the harvester at ore_pos, it was standing at an adjacent tile. That's where the first conveyor should go, since the harvester will output to whichever neighbor accepts resources. If I place a conveyor at the bot's current position pointing toward core, the harvester will feed into it, and then the chain of conveyors carries resources all the way back. The bot just needs to keep moving toward core and building conveyors at each step until it reaches the destination.
Now I'm thinking about the return path—the bot built roads on the way out, but if it takes a slightly different greedy route back toward core, it might hit tiles without roads. I should add a fallback to the routing logic that builds roads first if needed before moving.
Still writing route logic... Building pathways toward core... I'm realizing this approach is getting too complicated with all the edge cases, so I'm going to simplify by reusing the _nav function for the return trip and handling conveyor building separately from movement logic.
Refactoring the route step function... Refactoring the conveyor placement logic to use proper if statements instead of short-circuit evaluation, then writing out the complete clean version of the code.
Now I'm thinking through the axionite refinement pipeline for the miner bot—it needs to harvest axionite ore, build a foundry nearby, and set up dual conveyor chains to feed both raw axionite and titanium into the foundry, then route the refined output back to core. Since foundries have massive cost scaling, I should only build one. The routing gets tricky with two input streams, so I'll focus on getting the raw axionite to the foundry and assume titanium routing from core happens separately.
Actually, this is getting complicated for a strategy bot. The user did ask for axionite handling, so I should implement it but keep it straightforward—the miner finds ore, builds a harvester, places a foundry adjacent to it, then constructs conveyor chains to bring titanium from core and route refined axionite back. But I'm realizing the complexity is spiraling.
Let me step back and make a practical call: I'll fully implement titanium mining and the attack phase, handle axionite mining with a basic harvester that routes raw ore back to core, and implement a simplified foundry setup only if the ore spawns close enough to the core. If the ore is distant, the routing becomes too complex to manage without proper pathfinding, so I'll leave that as a future enhancement.
Actually, I'm overcomplicating this. Let me simplify: titanium mining gets full conveyor routing, axionite mining gets basic routing toward the core without foundry for now, and the foundry can be added later if ore is nearby. The attack phase is ready to go.
I should also track the path taken by miners more reliably to handle conveyor placement correctly. Let me just write the code cleanly now—I've got the architecture figured out, and tracking positions visited from the core will solve the routing problem.
When routing back, I'll reverse through the path and build conveyors at each step, which guarantees they connect properly. The path won't be huge in practice—maybe 50 positions at most on a 50x50 map—so storing it is fine. I'll add a safety check to handle any adjacency issues, and I'll make sure to append the current position to the path before moving each round.
Writing the miner implementation... Writing the routing logic... Setting up the exploration directions and utility functions...
I'm initializing the Player class with position tracking for the core, enemy, and ore deposits, plus indices for pathfinding and exploration state. The run method dispatches to different handlers based on entity type—core, builder bot, and others.
Now I'm implementing the core handler, which retrieves position and resources, then iterates through nearby entities to count harvesters on the team.
Continuing with the entity logic...
I'm converting excess axionite if we have enough, then determining the next bot role based on our current phase—prioritizing titanium miners if we need more, axionite miners if that's the bottleneck, otherwise attackers if we have surplus titanium. Then I'm checking if we can spawn a new unit by iterating through adjacent positions to find a valid spawn location. Writing builder logic... I'm checking if there's a marker at the current position to assign a role, and if that fails, I'll look at what phase the core is in to determine the unit's behavior.
Now I'm scanning for nearby enemies...
Continuing with the entity scanning logic...
I'm capping the path history at 200 entries to prevent memory bloat, then moving into the miner behavior where I check the current state—if exploring, I search for ore deposits and transition to approach mode once found, otherwise keep exploring; if approaching, I verify the ore position is still valid and check whether a harvester is already assigned to it.
Continuing with the approach logic, I'm checking if we're close enough to the ore to start building a harvester, otherwise navigating toward it while opportunistically scanning for closer ore deposits to potentially switch targets. Still writing the pathfinding logic... Still writing pathfinding logic... Building the navigation and movement logic... Writing the attacker logic... Writing navigation logic... Writing the launcher logic... I'm realizing there's a bug in the _route_step function where path_taken keeps growing as the bot moves, making the route_idx stale. I need to stop tracking the path once the bot enters the 'route' state, or switch to a separate tracking mechanism that doesn't append to the existing list.
Fixing the tracking logic...
I need to handle the bounds check after decrementing the route index, and account for cases where the path doesn't end exactly at the core position. The routing step also needs restructuring—right now it checks if the bot is at the source position before building, but if the bot is still navigating there, it won't proceed. I'm reorganizing it so the bot first navigates to the source position, and only once it arrives does it move to the next step.
Now I'm handling the actual building logic—destroying any existing road at the current position if the action cooldown allows, then checking what to build next based on the direction toward the next waypoint. Building movement and pathfinding logic...
I'm realizing I've been overcomplicating the state management around destroying and rebuilding tiles—the game likely handles updates immediately, so I should just proceed with building after destruction without redundant checks. Let me focus on getting a working implementation that actually delivers resources through the conveyor chain, starting with the harvester outputting to adjacent conveyors and each conveyor properly accepting and passing resources downstream to the core. the previous and outputs toward core
3. Last conveyor is adjacent to the core and points toward it
The path_taken approach guarantees this IF:

The bot starts adjacent to the core when it spawns
Each step adds exactly one position (no teleports)
The path is recorded correctly

Since bots spawn ON the core tiles, their first position is part of the core. The core's tiles are walkable. The bot then builds roads outward.
path_taken[0] = spawn position (on core, walkable)
path_taken[1] = first step away from core
...
path_taken[n] = position adjacent to ore
During routing:

route_idx = n → builds conveyor at path_taken[n] pointing toward path_taken[n-1] (ore adjacent → toward core)
...
route_idx = 1 → builds conveyor at path_taken[1] pointing toward path_taken[0] (toward core)
route_idx = 0 → done (path_taken[0] is on the core)

This should create a complete conveyor chain! ✓
Now there's a navigation issue: as the bot returns along the path to build conveyors, it needs to reach each position in sequence, but route_idx keeps decrementing. The navigation check compares the current position against the target position from path_taken, but there's a mismatch in how the bot determines where it should be going next.
Actually, once the bot moves to a position and decrements route_idx, the target becomes the new current position, so they match. The bot then builds the conveyor and moves again. But there's a timing problem: each round the bot can only perform one action (build or move), not both, so the sequence gets stretched across multiple turns. Decrements route_idx
Both action and move cooldowns start at 0 each round, so we can execute both in the same turn. After building (cooldown becomes 1) and moving (cooldown becomes 1), they reset to 0 the next round. ✓
In _route_step, both the build and move blocks can fire in the same round since they check independent cooldowns. The route_idx gets decremented after moving. ✓
Let me trace through an example to verify the indexing works correctly. Starting with route_idx at 5 and path_taken containing positions p0 through p5, the bot builds at its current position pointing toward the next waypoint, then moves there and decrements the index. On the next round, the index now points to the position we just moved to, which becomes the new reference point for building the next segment. the next call will use the updated route_idx to fetch the correct position. There's one more edge case to handle: when route_idx reaches 0, we're at the initial spawn position on the core and should stop building conveyors.
Checking the boundary condition... I'm confident the conveyor logic works correctly—resources flow from the harvester through the chain back to the core. Now for the MINER_AX role, I need to handle axionite similarly, but with an extra step: raw axionite gets destroyed at the core, so it needs to route through a foundry instead, which combines it with titanium to produce refined axionite.
The challenge is that a single bot can't build a harvester, foundry, and conveyor chains all in one round. I could either take the simple approach where the bot just routes raw axionite to the core (wasteful but straightforward), or have it find ore near the core, build a harvester, and start laying conveyors back—though the raw axionite will still reach the core and get destroyed before the foundry is even set up.
Since the user specifically wants a foundry, I should implement a basic version: after the bot builds the harvester on axionite ore, it checks for an adjacent empty tile to place the foundry, then routes the axionite through it. The trickier part is feeding titanium to the foundry—the core doesn't output resources on its own, so I need to figure out how to get titanium from storage to the foundry in the first place. I need to set up a practical approach: find ax ore, place a harvester on it, then position a foundry adjacent to it with a short conveyor chain feeding the raw ax into the foundry. The foundry also needs titanium input, which I'd route from a nearby titanium harvester if available—otherwise it'll just wait for the titanium to arrive while holding the raw materials.
Actually, looking back at what the user asked for, they want the bots to search for both axonite and titanium, refine the axonite through a foundry, and route everything back to core. Let me simplify this: I'll have the ax miners route raw axonite directly to core as a first pass, since the user's main focus is titanium mining and combat anyway. The foundry setup is complex enough that I'll implement basic placement logic and let the routing happen naturally if the geometry works out. So the user wants:

Route axonite (raw) to the core
"in the process" - have a foundry somewhere that converts them to refined
The refined goes to the core

This suggests the foundry is placed BETWEEN the axonite harvester and the core. The Ti also needs to come from somewhere.
For a working implementation:

Ax miner finds ax ore
Builds harvester
Builds foundry on adjacent tile
Builds conveyor from harvester to foundry (1 step)
Builds conveyor chain from foundry toward core (refined ax routing)
Also builds conveyor from a Ti source direction to foundry (Ti routing)

For point 6, the Ti source could be another Ti harvester's chain that passes through the foundry area. But we can't guarantee that.
I'm realizing the actual game requires both Ti and raw axonite at the foundry simultaneously, so I need to think about placement differently—maybe positioning the foundry between two ore sources or routing both materials to converge there, rather than assuming Ti will naturally flow in from an existing chain. both to foundry)

Ti conveyor: Ti ore harvester → [conveyor chain] → foundry input (one side)
Ax conveyor: Ax ore harvester → [conveyor chain] → foundry input (another side)
Foundry output: [conveyor chain] → core

The Ax miner bot can build:

The ax harvester on ax ore
The foundry adjacent (in the direction toward core)
Conveyor from ax harvester to foundry
Conveyor chain from foundry to core (refined ax output)
Conveyor chain from a Ti source to foundry (Ti input)

For point 5, the bot needs to find a Ti source. It could look for existing Ti conveyors in its vision and connect to them. Or route from a new Ti harvester.
This is complex but doable. Let me think through a simpler approach: the foundry accepts input from any side and outputs from any side, so I don't need to worry about directional constraints. If I place the foundry adjacent to the ax harvester, it'll automatically receive the raw ore. Then I just need to route a Ti source to the foundry—either by tapping into an existing Ti conveyor in vision or building a new one—and connect the foundry output toward the core.
I'm going to start coding this now, keeping the Ti routing flexible and simple for the initial version. I need to verify the Position API—pos.add(direction) returns a new position offset by that direction's delta, so that should work fine. I'm also realizing EXPLORE_DIRS shouldn't include Direction.CENTRE since it has a (0,0) delta and won't help with navigation. The sorting in _nav happens every round on just 8 directions, which is negligible. One thing to double-check: c.get_nearby_tiles() returns all tiles within the vision radius—for a builder bot with r²=20, that's roughly 60 tiles to iterate through.
Now I'm thinking through a concrete setup for the miner scenario. The bot would navigate from the core to the ore deposit, paving roads along the way, then build a harvester adjacent to the ore. Instead of just placing conveyors, I'd position a foundry between the harvester and the core to refine the ore in place, then build a conveyor chain from there back toward the core. The challenge is getting titanium to the foundry to complete the refining process.
I realize the core doesn't output titanium—it's only consumed during building. So titanium has to come from a dedicated harvester, which means I need to route the titanium harvester's output through the foundry location. This suggests a hub-based approach where the foundry sits at a fixed location near the core, and all miners route through it: titanium miners feed the foundry first, then the refined output goes to the core, while ore miners deliver directly to the foundry. The tricky part is actually implementing this coordination automatically.
I'm going to sidestep the complexity for now and just build a working version where axionite miners route raw ore directly to the core (where it gets destroyed), then add the proper foundry setup as a future improvement. Actually, let me just have the axionite miner build a simple foundry...
Now I'm thinking through the actual layout: the axionite miner finds ore, builds a harvester there, then constructs a foundry a couple tiles away toward the core with conveyors connecting them. The tricky part is feeding titanium into the foundry from somewhere else, which the bot would need to figure out by scanning for existing titanium harvesters in its vision range.
I'm going to stop overthinking this and just write out the full implementation. I'll structure it with constants and helper functions up front, then organize the player class with separate methods for core logic, builder dispatch, the miner state machine that handles both titanium and axionite, attack logic, and navigation utilities.
Defining the constants and role assignments... Setting up helper functions to check bounds and convert displacement vectors into cardinal directions...
Now I'm defining the Player class to track identity, positions, and mining state.
Continuing with the class structure...
The dispatch method routes to different handlers based on entity type—core, builder bot, or launcher—with error handling for game errors and general exceptions. Then I'm setting up the core handler to grab position, resources, and team info before scanning the vision for stats.
Now I'm iterating through nearby entities to count harvesters by ore type, foundries on my team, and checking if I've spotted an enemy core.
Based on resource levels, I determine which phase to enter—prioritizing titanium harvesting, then axionite, then attack mode. I also convert excess axionite into titanium when possible, then assign the next bot role based on the current phase and whether I have enough titanium surplus.
Now I'm handling unit spawning by checking if I have enough titanium reserves and haven't hit the unit cap, then attempting to spawn builders in adjacent tiles with role markers. I'm also encoding the current game state into a marker at the core's center position, combining phase, harvest levels, and foundation count. Finally, I'm setting up an enemy position marker if an enemy has been spotted.
Continuing with the builder bot logic...
If the role hasn't been assigned yet, I assign it based on the current position. Then I scan for any enemies in sight. While the bot is still heading outward (not in route, build_foundry, or done states), I'm tracking its path by appending positions, but keeping it trimmed to the last 200 positions to avoid memory bloat. Finally, I dispatch to the appropriate handler based on the assigned role—whether it's mining titanium, axionite, or something else.
Now I'm checking if the attacker role is assigned and calling its handler. After that, I'm looking for the team's core on the map by scanning nearby entities, and once found, I'm making a guess about where the enemy core might be based on a 180-degree rotation from our position.
Then I'm assigning roles to units by reading marker values placed at spawn tiles, which tells each unit whether it should be a miner or attacker and sets up its exploration index. Setting the initial state to explore mode and calculating a starting direction index based on position. Then I'm scanning for enemy cores nearby—if found, I store the enemy position and attempt to place a marker next to my own core as a defensive measure.
Now I'm moving into the miner logic, which handles resource gathering for both titanium and axe ore types. When in explore mode, I search for ore deposits, and once I locate one, I transition to the mining state.
Continuing with the approach phase, I check if someone else has already built a harvester at that location—if so, I abandon the ore and go back to exploring. Once I'm close enough to the ore deposit, I prepare to build the harvester structure. Building harvester logic... Writing the ore-finding and exploration logic...
Now I'm handling the route-stepping logic where I walk back along the saved path, converting roads to conveyors and building bridges at diagonal steps. I check if we've reached the core or exhausted the path, then grab the next position to move toward.
Navigating to the current waypoint and building the appropriate structure... Building the conveyor, then checking if the character can move toward the target—if blocked, I'll attempt to build a road on the destination tile to clear the path.
Now I'm shifting to the attacker logic, reading the enemy position from a team marker if it hasn't been located yet. Writing attack and navigation logic... NAVIGATION  (builds roads on empty tiles, moves 8-directionally)
I'm scoring each direction based on how well it aligns with the target vector, giving bonus points when moving toward the goal or staying aligned on one axis. Then I sort all directions by this score and try to move in the best direction first. If movement isn't available, I check if I can build a road on an adjacent tile to open up a path, prioritizing directions that get me closer to the target.
Now I'm setting up the launcher unit behavior.  I'm checking if the action cooldown allows a move, then scanning nearby entities to find adjacent builder bots on my team that I can throw over walls, searching for the best target tile within throwing range. Looking through the strategy checklist for the bot behaviors I've implemented: the core logic handles harvester tracking and spawning, builders read their role assignments from markers, miners explore and build harvesters while laying down conveyors on the way back, attackers navigate toward the enemy core using symmetry or team markers and fire when adjacent, navigation uses greedy scoring with road building across all directions, and the launcher throws friendly builders to the furthest reachable tile in range.
Now I'm verifying the implementation details—checking that method calls are correct (entity type and team queries work without arguments), the core spawning logic uses proper Python syntax, and the routing step correctly builds conveyors and bridges based on direction as bots backtrack toward home. route_idx decrements to 4, so next round pos equals P4 and from_pos equals path[4], which checks out. But there's a potential issue: if the bot can't reach a position in the path—like if it built a foundry there—_route_step will fail. Looking at the _builder logic, during 'build_foundry' state the path tracking continues, which might cause problems.
Actually, I'm realizing the real issue: when the bot builds a foundry on its current tile, that tile no longer has a road—it has a foundry. But according to the docs, builder bots can only walk on conveyors, roads, and the allied core. Foundries aren't walkable, so the bot can't actually traverse back through the tile it just built on.
But wait, there's a constraint I'm missing—the docs say you can only build walkable buildings (conveyors and roads) on a tile that contains a builder bot. Since foundries aren't walkable, the bot shouldn't be able to build a foundry on its own tile in the first place. So this situation shouldn't occur.
The real issue is figuring out where the bot should build the foundry. It needs to be adjacent to the harvester (which is on the ore tile), but the bot itself is also adjacent to the ore. So I need to think through the valid placement options for the foundry given the bot's position and the harvester's position.
Let me refine the logic: I'm iterating through adjacent tiles to the ore position, checking which ones are empty and within bounds, then building the foundry on the first valid tile I find.
Writing the foundry placement logic... Still writing foundry placement logic... Checking the action radius calculation—adjacent tiles are within r²≤2 since both distance 1 and √2 squared fall within that bound, and excluding the bot's own tile leaves 8 surrounding tiles to consider for placement.
The foundry building logic checks out: the foundry gets built on an adjacent tile rather than the bot's current position, so when the bot retraces its path during routing, it won't accidentally step onto the newly constructed foundry. But there's still something to work through about...
Actually, I'm realizing there's a potential issue with how the route index gets set when transitioning from 'build_foundry' back to 'route' state. The bot's current position wasn't added to the path while in 'build_foundry', so the path's last element is where the bot was before entering that state. Since the bot hasn't moved during the building phase, it should still be at that position, which means the routing should work correctly.
Now I'm going to write out the complete, clean code with proper safety checks. I need to add validation in the route stepping function to handle edge cases like corrupted or empty paths, and also prevent duplicate positions from being added to the path tracking.
Adding safety checks...
I realize the path tracking is already inlined in the builder function rather than in a separate method, which is fine. Now I'm calculating the attack strategy—with 10 bots rushing the enemy core at 2 damage per attack, I need to figure out how many rounds it'll take to deal 500 damage total.
The constraint is that builder bots can't stack on the same tile, and the enemy core is 3×3, so only 9 bots can attack simultaneously. That means 18 damage per round, requiring about 28 rounds to destroy the core.
The resource math checks out: 3 harvesters generate about 7.5 Ti per round from stacks, plus 2.5 Ti per round from passive income, totaling 10 Ti/round. Over 28 rounds that's 280 Ti generated, which covers the 504 Ti needed for the attack (9 bots × 2 Ti per attack × 28 rounds) when combined with starting reserves.
But I'm realizing the real constraint: attacker bots need to build roads across the map to reach the enemy core, potentially requiring 50 roads per bot at 1 Ti each. With 10 bots, that's 500 Ti just for road construction, and cost scaling makes roads progressively more expensive. Even though roads only contribute 0.5% to scaling, this could significantly strain the resource budget.
However, since all 10 attackers follow the same path from our core to theirs, only the first bot needs to build the roads—subsequent bots reuse them. So the actual cost is just 50 roads total at base cost, which is manageable. The bigger concern is handling walls and obstacles that might force the bots to take longer detours around wall clusters, potentially requiring many more roads than expected.
For launcher assistance with walls, I realize my current implementation doesn't have any bot building launchers automatically. But I could add a fallback: if an attacker bot gets stuck behind a wall for too many rounds, it builds a launcher on its current tile, moves adjacent to it, and waits to be launched. The launcher itself would execute its own behavior in its Player instance to launch the waiting bot over the obstacle.
But there's a fundamental problem here—a launcher isn't walkable, so a bot can't build one on its own tile while standing there. The bot would need to build the launcher on an adjacent tile instead, but then how does it position itself to actually be launched?
Actually, I think I've got it: the bot builds the launcher on an adjacent walkable tile (like one space to the east), then stays at its current position. Since the launcher is adjacent to the bot, it can detect and launch it over the wall toward the enemy core. The launcher doesn't need to be on a walkable tile itself—just built on any empty non-wall tile—so this should work as long as the bot stays adjacent and the launcher has a clear trajectory to throw it over the obstacle.
Now I need to figure out the launcher's action radius and how it determines where to throw the bot. Let me check what the launcher's vision and throw range actually are...
The launcher has a vision radius of 26 and can throw adjacent builder bots to any tile within that same range—that's huge on a 50×50 map, basically covering most of it. So the strategy is: when an attacker gets stuck, it builds a launcher on an adjacent tile, moves next to it, and the launcher throws it toward the enemy position. The tricky part is making sure the launcher knows where to aim—it needs to either target the enemy's known position or throw toward the map center as a fallback.
Rather than trying to detect when a bot is truly stuck (which is complex since it requires checking all 8 directions for walls), I'll keep it simple: the attacker tracks how many rounds it hasn't moved or built a road, and if that exceeds a threshold, it builds a launcher. But honestly, for most maps the greedy navigation should work fine—launchers are more of a backup for edge cases where walls completely block progress. Writing the launcher logic... Writing the launcher's action logic... Still writing targeting logic... I'm realizing the launcher needs a fallback strategy since it might not always have the core in vision range—if the enemy position is unknown, I'll have it throw bots toward the map center as a reasonable default. Let me write out the complete production code now without further deliberation.
Actually, I need to clarify the builder bot's attack mechanics: it costs 2 Ti to deal 2 damage to whatever building is on its own tile, which means to attack the enemy core directly, the bot would need to stand on one of the 9 tiles that make up the core. But builder bots can only walk on conveyors, roads, and the allied core—the enemy core isn't listed as walkable, so I'm not sure if bots can actually reach it to attack it. So the core issue is that builder bots can only attack buildings they're standing on, but they can't walk onto enemy core tiles in the first place. And since the core already occupies those tiles, we can't build roads over them either. This means the direct "rush and spam attack" strategy the user described isn't actually possible with the game mechanics. Looking at the walkable tiles constraint, builder bots can only move on conveyors, roads, and their own core—not the enemy core. So the user's strategy of rushing the enemy core with builder bots won't work as described, since they can't even reach it. The actual solution would require turrets like gunners or sentinels that can attack from range, but the user specifically asked about a builder bot rush, so either they didn't realize this limitation or I'm misunderstanding something about the game mechanics. game mechanics.
Wait, let me re-read the attack in the context: "Use can_fire() / fire() combat API."
And from fire(): "Fire this turret at target, or perform the builder bot's own-tile attack. Builder bots spend 2 titanium to deal 2 damage to the building on their current tile."
And can_fire(target): "Return True if this turret can fire at target this round, or if this builder bot can use its own-tile attack on target."
So can_fire(pos) where pos is the bot's own position returns True if there's a building on the bot's tile and the bot has 2 Ti. The bot then damages that building.
For this to work against the enemy core: the bot needs to be ON an enemy core tile. Which requires the enemy core tile to be walkable.
Which it's not. So the user's strategy won't work—the builder bot can't actually reach the enemy core to attack it. Looking at the API more carefully, the bot can only damage buildings on its own tile, and checking the code examples confirms the target position is always the bot's current position. Since enemy core tiles aren't walkable, the bot can never be positioned there to deal damage. However, I notice: "The allied core" is walkable for builder bots. This means the enemy's builder bots CAN walk on the enemy's core (it's their allied core). And our builder bots CAN walk on OUR core.
The ENEMY core tiles are walkable for ENEMY bots but not for OUR bots.
BUT: if roads are built on the tiles adjacent to the enemy core, our bots can attack those roads? No, that's silly.
Hmm, unless the enemy HAS built roads on their core tiles? That seems unusual.
Wait, "Conveyors (any variant, any direction, either team), Roads (either team)" - ENEMY roads and conveyors are also walkable! So if the enemy builds roads around their core, OUR bots can walk on those roads and be adjacent to the enemy core.
But the enemy core tiles themselves remain non-walkable for us. So the builder bot attack strategy probably targets enemy infrastructure like roads and conveyors near their core rather than the core directly, with turrets handling the actual core destruction from range. Or maybe builder bots positioned on enemy conveyors can disrupt their infrastructure, or launchers could throw them onto core tiles in unexpected ways. For a working implementation, I'll have the attacker bots navigate to the enemy core area and build gunner turrets from adjacent tiles to deal damage from range, since bots can't actually stand on or be launched onto enemy core tiles—they're not passable for our team. Ti as ammo (from stock)
Actually, turrets need AMMO fed via conveyors. Building the ammo supply chain is complex.
SIMPLEST working attack strategy:
Build sentinels or gunners near the enemy core, point them at the core, and let them fire. But this requires:

Bots navigate to enemy core area
Bots build roads to enemy core area
Bots build gunner turrets near the core
Conveyors to feed ammo to the turrets

For a quick implementation: bots navigate to enemy core, build a gunner on a road adjacent to enemy core, point at the core. The gunner's ammo needs Ti from conveyors... but we need the whole conveyor chain.
Actually, looking at this more carefully - this is VERY complex to automate. The user's strategy (builder bot attack) would work if the bots can get close enough to the enemy core tiles.
I'm realizing builder bots can attack enemy buildings they're standing on, so if the enemy has built infrastructure right up to their core, our bots could walk those enemy roads and disrupt their economy by attacking adjacent buildings rather than the core directly. Builder bots can also heal friendly entities on their own tile, and they spend 2 Ti to deal 2 damage to buildings they're standing on - that's the only attack mechanism available. So the real question is whether bots can get adjacent to the core to attack supporting infrastructure, since they can't attack from a distance.
For simplicity, I'll focus on: bots navigate to the enemy core area using roads, then attack any buildings they're standing on to destroy enemy infrastructure. The full turret-based core destruction can be a TODO for enhancement.
Wait, let me double-check the movement rules one more time.
So our allied core is walkable, but the enemy core isn't in the walkable list. What if I try building roads directly on the enemy core tiles? Actually, no—the core is a 3×3 building occupying 9 tiles, so I can't place roads on top of it. Those tiles are only walkable for the enemy team since it's their allied core.
This really constrains the attack strategy, so I'll need to rethink how the bots approach the enemy core.
The proper way to attack is by building gunner turrets near the enemy core and feeding them with conveyors so they can fire at it. Looking at this more carefully, the builder bot has a weak attack that's probably meant for destroying enemy infrastructure like conveyors and roads that our bots can walk on. The core itself should be destroyed using dedicated turrets like gunners or sentinels. So the game flow is: gather resources early on, build harvesters in the mid-game, then construct turrets to push toward the enemy.
For implementation, I'll start with three titanium miners in phase one, then add three axe miners in phase two, with remaining bots alternating between mining surplus titanium and attacking. The attack bots will navigate toward the enemy core along existing roads, and when they get close enough, they'll build gunner turrets if positioned on a road or conveyor adjacent to the core. This avoids the complexity of building an entire conveyor supply chain all the way to the enemy.
Actually, I'm realizing the bots can be much more effective by simply walking on enemy roads and conveyors—which are walkable for any team's units—and destroying that infrastructure directly. This economic disruption is more practical than trying to assault the core itself, and gunner turrets can handle the core threat from a distance.
For my attacker bot implementation, I'll keep it straightforward: navigate toward the enemy core, attack any enemy buildings encountered along the way, and optionally place a gunner turret nearby. I need to be careful though—the bot shouldn't attack its own infrastructure, so I'm adding a team ownership check before firing.
Implementing the ownership check... I'm realizing the gunner approach gets messy since I can't build non-walkable structures on my current tile, and placing them adjacent means waiting for ammo delivery. I'll stick with the simpler strategy of having the builder bot walk enemy infrastructure and destroy it directly through attacks, leaving turret-based core destruction as a future enhancement.
But now I'm questioning whether the builder can even damage the enemy core directly—the core tiles aren't walkable for my bots, so there's no way to get adjacent to it for an attack. A launcher could theoretically throw a bot there, but it only throws to passable tiles, which the enemy core isn't. So direct core attacks are off the table. Though I'm wondering if placing a conveyor next to the core could create a walkable tile that opens up new possibilities...
no, that still doesn't work because the bot would only damage the conveyor it's standing on, not the adjacent core.
So the real strategy is: attacker bots navigate toward the enemy core, destroy any buildings they encounter along the way, and when they get close enough, build a gunner turret on a nearby walkable tile to actually damage the core. The challenge is that a gunner without ammo delivery won't be very effective.
I could route titanium to the gunner through conveyors, but that requires converting the attack path roads into ammo delivery conveyors, which defeats the purpose of the attack route. It's getting too tangled.
I'll go with the simpler approach: attacker bots navigate to the enemy, destroy their infrastructure as they go, and build a launcher to break through walls if they get stuck. I'll skip the turret enhancement for now.
